[Transcript missing]
So let's talk about streaming servers.
So Apple,
we've got QuickTime Streaming Server.
We also have Darwin Streaming Server.
And basically what that is,
is the open source version of
the QuickTime Streaming Server.
So I want to keep that in mind
as another entry point for
development throughout this session.
So let's talk about what we're
going to talk about today.
So I'm going to briefly go over
some of the new features in QTSS 4.
And then after that,
we're going to have some engineers
come up and provide some more
detailed technical information.
A couple of the things you're
going to learn about are more
about our server module API.
The server's got a really
powerful API for building modules.
It's very object-oriented,
and we've made some
enhancements to it in form.
I'll have an engineer come up
and talk about that a little bit.
We also have something we call
the admin protocol in the server,
and that's a mechanism for remotely
administering and monitoring
and controlling the server.
We'll have a little talk about
that and show how you can build
some tools around that protocol.
Let's talk about what's new in QTSS 4.
Here's a short list.
The list is actually a lot longer,
but I want to focus on some
of the high-level things here.
We've done some enhancements
for development.
As I said, we've improved the
module API a little bit.
We've provided some more
developer documentation.
And we've made some enhancements to our
skip protection algorithms and the result
of that is some of the InstantON demos
that you saw earlier in the conference.
And with every release we try
to improve the performance.
We've done that.
We have completely
designed the web admin.
We've added some support
for automated relays,
which allows you... Relays
are a mechanism for sending
streams from server to server as
opposed to from server to client.
And we've added native MPEG-3 streaming.
And last but certainly not least,
QuickTime Streaming Server 4 has
full support for MPEG-4 content.
So, this is a big deal.
What this means is that the
QuickTime Streaming Server will work
with any ISO-compliant MPEG-4 content,
and it'll stream it to
any compliant player.
It doesn't have to be
the QuickTime player.
It can be any MPEG-4 player.
So this is actually a really big deal.
We really think that MPEG-4
is going to become the de
facto standard for streaming.
So let's drill down a little bit.
Module APIs.
So if you are familiar with
the module APIs at all,
prior to QuickTime Streaming Server 4,
you were able to,
modules were able to access some
of the objects in the server.
So let me explain what I mean by objects.
The API is really object-oriented.
So all of the API calls take
objects as parameters to them,
and objects are basically the
mechanism that's used for the
server to communicate with modules.
Modules and servers pass objects
back and forth to each other.
With QuickTime Streaming
Server 3 and prior,
the only objects that modules
could get to were objects that
the server had created and
they were owned by the server.
With QuickTime Streaming Server 4...
We've now made it possible for
modules to create their own objects,
and that provides a bunch of power to
modules that you didn't have before,
and you're going to learn more
about that later in the session.
Documentation-wise,
we have now documented
our reliable RTP protocol,
or skip protection as you guys know it.
And what that means is that if
you want to write a server or
a client that take advantage of
script protection and advantage of
instant on and things like that,
we've documented that protocol,
so you can do that now.
In addition to that,
we have documented our mechanism
for tunneling RTSP over HTTP.
And the reason we do that is it's
our way of getting through firewalls
that don't support RTSP and RTP.
So that's documented.
Again,
if you want to write a server or a client
that take advantage of that protocol,
documentation is all there.
And the last thing we need,
new documentation that we have
is for caching streaming proxies.
So if you're writing a proxy appliance,
for example, or streaming appliance,
what we've done is we've provided,
we've done some extensions to RTP and
RTSP that allow caching streaming
proxies to get pristine copies of
the stream and some other features.
We've documented how that works now.
Performance improvements.
So every time we release a new
version of QuickTime Streaming Server,
we lock a guy in a room and we
tell him to make it go faster.
And we did it again.
We're now up to 4,000 concurrent
streams on a single server.
Those are low bitrate streams.
But in addition to that,
we've now doubled the number of
high bitrate movies that we can
stream from a single server.
By high bitrate,
I'm talking about one megabit movies,
big movies,
movies that can play full screen
that look just as good as TV.
We've doubled that number.
And for those of you who have ever been
through the process of hinting a movie,
you're probably familiar with the
little checkbox that says optimize
for streaming or optimize for server.
We did a lot of work in the server,
in QuickTime Streaming Server 4,
and made a bunch of changes
to the parsing code.
And we basically made it so that
you don't need to optimize anymore.
The downside,
the reason we used to need optimizing was
that it created movies that allowed the
server to scale much higher so we could
serve more movies if they were optimized.
The downside was that they
doubled the size of your movie.
So, as of QuickTime Streaming Server 4,
you no longer need to optimize.
Here's a graphical view of what
we've done with performance.
With the first version
of the streaming server,
we were able to do a thousand concurrent
streams off of a single machine.
At that time,
we thought that was actually pretty good.
In each release,
we've increased the performance.
You can see now QuickTime Streaming
4 has quadrupled our original
capacity in the server.
Hopefully,
the graph will continue going up as we
release more versions of the server.
So another feature is
the redesigned admin app.
So if you're familiar with
QuickTime Streaming Server 3,
we announced a web-based
administration application.
Basically,
it lets you administer the server from
a web browser locally or remotely.
And that was great,
but we made it even better.
We completely revamped it.
It's got a brand new look.
It's much cleaner,
much easier to navigate.
We've added a setup assistant,
and you can probably
figure out what that does.
Basically, it walks you through
a couple of questions,
you answer them,
and then within minutes you've
got the server up and running
and ready to serve content.
And we've added UI for something
that was actually pretty
complex to do in the past,
which is set up relays.
So we've got UI and monitoring for that.
One of the features we added in
QuickTime Streaming Server 3 was the
ability to do server-side playlists.
What that allows you to do is things
like internet radio stations by serving
a server-side playlist of content.
We've completely revamped the UI for
that in the administration app.
I'm going to show you a
little bit of what we've done.
I'm going to launch the admin
and log in to the server.
So this is all secured.
We support SSL.
If you don't remember
your name and password,
we can't help you there, though.
So, here's the new look.
It's much cleaner.
Here's the main page.
Shows just some general
status on the server.
You can see some general
settings that you can set.
You can monitor which
users are connected.
I've got a lot of users connected
and they all seem to like the very
popular sample 100k bit movie.
And let me show you how easy it
is to work with playlists now.
I'm going to set up an MP3 playlist.
I'm basically going to set
up an internet radio station.
I'm going to show you how easy this is.
I'm going to call it Chris Radio.
And I'm going to give it a mount point.
The mount point is basically the
path portion of the URL that users
are going to use when they listen
to this from their MP3 player.
Pick a genre,
which will show up in the MP3 player.
It's a radio station,
so I want to randomly play music,
but I want to be able to control
the randomness of certain songs,
and that's what weighted randomness is.
It allows me to add weights to
songs so that certain songs play
more often than other songs.
And I want to make sure that the
song doesn't repeat itself until
five other songs have been played.
So that's basically setting things up.
Now I want to go through and
just pick the items that I want
to have in my radio station.
So these are files that are actually
stored on the disk on the server.
Basically,
I just select them and drag them over.
And here you can see the weighting,
so I can say that I don't really
like compression to play too often,
so I'll reduce that.
You'll notice I've got
a station ID MP3 here,
so this is, you know, Chris Radio,
welcome to Chris Radio, station ID.
I want that to play more often,
so I'll increase the weight on that.
And I'll save those changes.
And I will tell this playlist
to start playing and I basically
have an internet radio station.
I'm done.
It's very simple.
Speaking of MP3, let me tell you more
about what we've done.
We have native MP3 streaming.
What I mean by that is we are
Icecast/Shoutcast compatible.
The server can rebroadcast
an incoming stream of MP3s.
We can generate a stream
of MP3s off of the server.
Because we're compatible,
we can also inject into networks
or other servers that are
using these standard protocols.
As you've seen,
it's really easy to set up
an internet radio station.
I think it's certainly the easiest
server-side solution that I've seen.
This server scales really well,
so this is really the thing you're
going to want to use if you want to send
streams out to massive numbers of people.
Of course,
because we're using standard protocols,
it works with any MP3 player that
supports standard HTTP streaming,
Windows Media Player,
or real-time streaming.
We've provided mechanisms for doing
insertion of ads or station IDs.
You saw an automatic way of doing it.
We actually have ways where
you can dynamically do that in
real-time if you like as well.
You can do real-time
playlist manipulation.
If I wanted to remove songs or add
songs while the playlist was playing,
no problem.
You don't have to stop the radio
station and bring it back up.
That would be a pretty poor experience.
You can broadcast locally
from your machine.
You can treat your machine as
an all-in-one unit that does all
of the streaming to the clients,
or you can have the server send off to
another server and relay things that way.
[Transcript missing]
So next,
I'm going to have John Anderson come up,
and he's going to talk to you a little
bit about the admin protocol and show you
how to write tools using this protocol.
John?
Hello, everybody.
I'm John Anderson.
I'm here from QuickTime Streaming
Server Engineering to talk to you
today about the admin protocol.
And the reason you'd want to use the
admin protocol is if you want to make
another application which communicates
with QuickTime Streaming Server.
And you can do this in real time and
get real-time data out of the server
and real-time preferences out of
the server from another application,
even running on another machine.
And it's really easy to do.
[Transcript missing]
With that in mind,
I'm going to show you a quick demo,
and this will give you an idea
of how easy it is to access
information inside QuickTime Server.
I have a URL bookmarked,
and you can see this is basically
going to connect to a copy of
QuickTime Server and get a specific path.
I'm logging in with the
same password as Chris used.
And here we go.
We have --
Here we have some
information from the server.
So you can see some information
about what the default DNS name is.
You can see some information about
what the current bandwidth is,
what the average bandwidth is.
So there's lots of information
that you can get at via the admin
protocol that's all updated live.
And all of this is just
like accessing pages,
say, on an Apache web server.
Very, very simple.
Can I go back to slides, please?
Actually, never mind.
I have another application, actually,
that I'm going to show you.
The reason for it is that, you know,
just bringing up a web page,
that's kind of boring.
It doesn't really show what you
can do with the admin protocol.
So I have this application,
the QTSS Inspector.
And this is a Cocoa application,
which gets all of the
preferences from the server.
So when I log in here,
I'm seeing the same information
I saw on that web page,
but it's parsing it and putting it into a
nice outline view so that you can see it.
Now, you notice here that
you see some folders.
Not only does this mimic an
Apache web server from the standpoint
that you have a bunch of paths,
but you also have subpaths.
So it's just like having
subfolders on a web server.
For example,
here we have a QTSS Server Client
Connections subfolder.
And inside that,
we have subfolders for each
connection to the server.
So you can see information about
every client that's connected to the
server through the admin protocol.
So, yeah,
now I'd like to go back to slides.
Please.
So this inspector is based on
the NSOutlineView class in Cocoa.
So if anybody's familiar with Cocoa,
they probably already know this.
And the data source for that
outline view gets its data just
by performing HTTP requests.
And it uses the password that
I entered when I first started the
application as authentication for that.
So again, it's just like getting
pages out of a web server.
Very simple thing to do.
The format of the URLs is basically,
you can see the sample URL at the bottom.
The port that you access
through is typically 554.
That's the default port for streaming.
If you have port 80 turned on
in your web administration UI,
then you can connect
through port 80 as well.
So you wouldn't even have to
type the port in in that case.
All of the URL paths
begin with /modules/admin.
The reason for that is that that's the
way that QuickTime Streaming Server can
tell the difference between a URL that's
meant for the admin protocol versus a
URL that's meant for an MP3 stream or
a video stream or something like that.
You notice you can also use wildcards
to get multiple values or sets.
This is similar to when you
can go to a directory in
Apache and have it automatically
create an index page for you.
If you use an asterisk at the end of
your URL in QuickTime Streaming Server,
it will give you a listing of all
of the preferences in that folder.
So the sample URL you
can see here is modules,
admin, server, and then an asterisk.
Pretty much everything,
even though all URLs have
to start with modules,
admin, pretty much all of the preferences
and data that you're going
to need are actually inside
a subfolder of that called server.
So as you can see, it's just a standard
URL path that you get,
and you get your results back.
So again, I have another demo for you.
Now, Chris showed you in the web UI,
you can see a list of
the connected users.
And again, that's, you know,
this is a demo.
This is supposed to be exciting.
So I've built a connected,
a connection monitor,
which is another Cocoa application.
And when I log in here, I can
I can see a graph of all the bandwidth
that's coming through the server.
And you can see at the top of the window,
it lists whatever the current bandwidth
coming through the server is at the
moment and what the maximum bandwidth
is set to in your preferences.
So it's gathering the information
from the preferences to find
out what your bandwidth cap is,
and then it's gathering live
information from the server via the
admin protocol to find out what the
current bandwidth coming through
the server is at any moment.
So that's it for the demo.
If you can switch back.
So again,
this fetches the current bandwidth every
half second and then uses a subclass of
NSView to display a historical chart.
So this application is composed
of three main components.
The first one being that NSView,
which constructs a bar graph
from a given array of history.
And then it includes an NSTimer,
which fires every half second
and then consequently tells
the NSView to redraw itself.
And lastly,
there's a custom object that I created,
which was an admin
protocol access object.
And this custom object that this
application uses basically performs
the HTTP request and parses it into
something that Cocoa can understand.
So the URLs that it's getting
in order to populate its data,
the top one is the URL for
the current bandwidth cap.
And again,
you can see that it starts with slash
module slash admin slash server.
And in this case,
since it's a preference,
it's actually in a subfolder of
that called QTSS server preferences.
And so you can see,
kind of get a general feel for what kinds
of URLs and what kinds of information
that you can get from the server.
And then, of course,
we have two different URLs for the
RTSP bandwidth and the MP3 bandwidth.
And then we total those two together
to find out what the total bandwidth
is going through that server.
So to give you an idea of some of
the Cocoa calls that I'm giving here,
I basically just tell my admin protocol
access object to get a value using HTTP.
And it returns,
this object basically parses the
result and returns it in an array.
And we take the first item of that array,
since we're only getting
one item of information,
we take the first item of that array and
set the string value for the field at the
top of the window using that information.
We, of course,
have similar code here to get the
other two values from the server,
to total them together,
and to tell the NSView to redraw itself.
So that's it for me,
and I guess on to Mythili,
and she's going to talk
to you about writing
QuickTime Streaming Server modules.
Hi, everyone.
Now I'm going to give you a brief
introduction to QTSS modules.
In this overview,
I shall explain a little bit about
some of the key concepts that are
involved in writing QTSS modules.
I shall also show some sample module code
that illustrates some of these concepts
and end with a demo of a sample module.
But before going talking
about writing modules,
why would anyone want
to write QTSS modules?
The streaming server does
a lot of different things.
It serves QuickTime movies,
it streams MP3s, it even relays streams,
it also reflects live broadcasts,
and a bunch of other things.
Now, all these features are not
implemented in the core server,
but really in all the modules.
Each module implements
one or more features.
So if you want a feature that's
not already in the server,
then writing a module
is the only way to go.
There are two ways to write a module.
One, you can compile in the
module with the server,
and that's called a static module.
But you could also write the module
such that it's dynamically linked
in at runtime and not compiled in,
in which case it's
called a dynamic module.
It's very similar to a plug-in.
In this case, if you write your module
as a dynamic module,
then you do not have to publish
your source code or give back
your source code to Apple,
even though the core server itself
is open source and is under the
Apple public source license.
This means that you can sell your
dynamic module and still protect
your intellectual property,
which I'm sure is very
important to all of you.
Also, you could package your module along
with QTSS and sell this version
of the enhanced streaming server.
Now, moving on to writing QTSS.
DSS modules.
One of the main concepts in writing
a QTSS module is a QTSS role.
As I said earlier,
the server is not doing the work,
but the modules are the ones that
are really doing all the work
of implementing the features.
This means that the server
calls all these modules at
different points in time.
These different points in time or states
are called QTSS roles in our server.
So the server provides a well-defined
state each time it calls a
module in a particular role.
And it exchanges information
with the module by passing
in one or more QTSS objects.
I should explain a little
more about QTSS objects later.
But the server doesn't know what modules
need to be called in any particular role.
So when it first starts up,
it asks all the modules
what roles they handle.
So this process is called
registering for a role in QTSS.
Some of the roles that are available
in the server are the RTSP filter role,
the route role, the RTSP route role,
the client session closing role,
and so on.
There are many more roles,
and you can implement your features
in sometimes more than one role.
There's no hard and fast rule that
you need to use a particular role
to implement a particular feature.
For example, if you wanted to implement
load balancing in your server,
then your module could,
in the RTSP filter role,
stop the request processing and send
back an RTSP redirect to another server.
This is how typically
load balancing works,
right?
You have a server that's at the gate,
and it's redirecting
requests to other servers.
So basically,
based on some rules that you have,
you can redirect.
But you can collect
statistical information.
You can collect data from the
other servers and load balance
accordingly and send back an
RTSP redirect in the RTSP filter role.
Also, the server only has
one content directory.
But there might be times when you want
to have multiple content directories,
so you're hosting your content on
more than one directory in the server.
For this,
you could write a module that listens
in the RTSP route role that redirects
or rewrites the content directory
for each RTSP request that comes in,
again, based on certain rules.
and the server also does some logging.
The server keeps a lot of information
for each client that connects to it.
And this information is kept
inside a QTSS object called
the QTSS client session object.
So when the client comes
in and disconnects,
the server calls all the modules in
the client session closing role and
passes in the client session object,
which means that your module,
if it wants to log some advanced
attributes off the client,
client session,
then you could do so by registering
for the client session closing role,
grab those attributes of
the client session object,
and record them in
whatever form you may want.
Maybe you don't want to
really record it to file,
but you want to send it off
somewhere to a remote server.
You can do all sorts of things with that,
and it's pretty simple.
Now,
I've been talking about QTSS objects.
What are QTSS objects?
I'm not sure how many of you are familiar
with writing object-oriented programming
or object-oriented programming languages,
but if you are,
then you're all familiar with
the concept of an object.
And really, a QTSS object is very similar
to a regular object in an
object-oriented programming language,
which means that it has
a set of attributes,
which are called members in
object-oriented programming,
and it has a set of methods that you
can operate on that particular object.
So the concept is very similar.
There's a QTSS object that
has a set of attributes,
and there are a set of API calls that
you can operate on those QTSS objects.
And it is a method.
It's a way to exchange information
between the server and the modules.
So the modules,
the server passes in these
objects in different QTSS roles,
as I already mentioned.
So the modules can get
any sort of information,
get and set attributes in these objects.
The server pre-defines
some of the objects.
One of the objects is
a QTSS server object,
which is basically the overall server
object that stores the attributes,
such as the statistics,
as in the number of current connections,
the current bandwidth, and so on.
And all these attributes get dynamically
updated during the life of the server.
The server also creates an
RTSP request object when an
RTSP request first comes in.
Correspondingly,
it creates a client session
object for an RTP session that's
associated with a client when you're
accessing the RTP packets app.
So these are some of the pre-defined
or built-in objects of the server.
And prior to QTSS, in QTSS 4,
the only objects available to the
modules are all defined by the server.
Modules could not define
their own QTSS objects.
But in QTSS 4, modules can now create
Now, why create QTSS objects?
You could have always stored
your data in internal data
structures inside your module,
and that's what all modules
did prior to QTSS 4.
But now,
you have the advantage of storing
your data in QTSS objects.
By doing this,
your data becomes part of the server,
and all the other modules in the
server have access to these attributes.
This becomes really important when
we learn more about it as we move on.
So, by creating a QTSS object
for your module,
it has become a stock QTSS object,
which means that you can use a really
powerful yet simple QTSS API on your
object and do a variety of things.
One of the other big advantages is
accessibility through the admin protocol.
John has already talked to you about
how powerful the admin protocol is,
and it's as simple as doing it.
It's as simple as doing HTTP requests.
By creating QTSS objects,
your data is browsable and accessible
through the admin protocol.
That means you can set and get
attributes through the admin protocol
without writing your own new protocol.
For example,
we ourselves use these objects
in our modules at vWritten.
And Chris talked about the
automatic relay feature.
So in the relay module is the module
that implements the relaying of streams.
And every time you set up
a relay in the web admin,
the relay module is actually
creating a relay object,
a QTSS relay object, really,
and it populates with all the attributes
that are necessary for that relay.
So once you configure it,
you have this object ready,
and you can monitor it through the
web admin by getting these attributes,
and that's what's happening.
So if you go to the web admin and
try to look up the relay status,
how many bits the relay is sending out,
how many are coming in and
how many are going out,
what is really happening is
that the admin is fetching the
relay object attributes to the
admin protocol and getting it.
So if you want to learn more
about how to create these objects,
then the relay module is the
place to go and look for it.
Thank you.
Let me explain a little
more how this works.
So prior to QTSS 4,
the modules kept their data internally.
So you see the yellow blobs of data?
Those are internal data structures.
And as you can see,
they're not accessible to
any of the other modules.
They're not viewable.
So you don't have the
advantage of the API calls,
nor of the admin protocol.
But now in QTSS 4,
a module can create its own QTSS objects.
That means your module objects have
actually become part of the server.
And you can see that by
virtue of being in a server,
they have complete
access to the API calls.
And any module can get access to your
data by using just the API calls.
It's not something that's hidden.
As you can see,
because the module objects
are part of the server,
the admin protocol also has
access to it via the admin module.
And so you don't have to write your own.
Prior to... I'm going
to go back a little.
[Transcript missing]
With the module objects,
you can see that the admin protocol
knows about your module objects,
so your job is way simpler.
And you can take full advantage
of the tools and technologies that
the streaming server provides.
Now, you know, now you want to create
these QTSS objects,
but how do you do it?
As I said earlier,
the concept of objects is very similar to
objects in object-oriented programming.
So just as you would first define a
class when you want to create objects,
you would do the same.
You would create a new
object type in QTSS.
And so you would define this new object
type using the createObjectType call.
And in object-oriented programming,
once you define a class,
you need to instantiate an object
of that class to do anything.
So this means it's the same analogy here,
because you instantiate an object
of the newly defined type of yours.
And you do so by using the
create object value call.
This is just a brief,
it gives you a brief idea
of what the API calls are,
but there's a lot more.
And the API documentation clearly
explains how all these calls work.
And there's a sample module
that you can look at if you
want to learn more about it.
And once you create these QTSS objects,
as I said earlier, you can use any
QTSS API call on your object,
just like you would use for the
regular built-in predefined objects.
To illustrate some of
these concepts further,
I wrote a sample module that
uses some of these API calls.
I wanted to serve content
from users' home directories.
Some of you are probably familiar
with when you go to a web server
and you use a request such as
tilde joe slash index.html,
the server is actually getting Joe's home
directory or Joe's web server directory.
I wanted the same feature
for the streaming server,
where I wanted to have a tilde
joe in my RTSP URL and my module.
I can serve content from Joe's
home directory instead of having
to put all the user's content into
one big movies directory so that
the users have their own access.
It's a very common use,
and everybody wants to have that.
So I decided to write a
module that can do it.
So when a request comes in
with tilde joe slash bday.move,
the bday.move is actually going to
be coming from Joe's home directory.
And since I need to rewrite
the content directory to
point to Joe's home directory,
the role that I need to register
for is the RTSP route role.
The RTSP route role is basically routing
the request to another directory.
And the attributes that I'm interested
in are the RTSP request file
path and the RTSP request router.
The request file path,
because as you can see,
the file path has tilde
joe slash bday.move,
and I need to strip out the
tilde joe because the server
doesn't know what tilde joe is.
And the request router will be initially
pointing to the movies directory,
so I need to change that
to Joe's home directory.
And these two attributes are going to
be coming from the bday.move directory.
And these two attributes belong
to the RTSP request object,
and the RTSP request object
gets passed in by the server
in the QTSS RTSP route role.
As I mentioned earlier,
the server doesn't know what
modules can handle what roles.
So you need to register for
the role when the server calls
you in the register role.
And you can do so by telling
the server that you want to
be called for the route role,
as I'm doing here,
and some other roles that you might need.
There's only one entry point
function into the module,
so the server always calls the module
in the same function for every role.
So it's a very common way of
writing dynamic modules or plug-ins,
and we call it dispatch functions.
And as you can see,
I am just redirecting.
When I get called in the RTSP route role,
my module is calling my own internal
function that's actually doing the work.
Now the work here is to look for a
tilde in the first part of the path,
and if I find the tilde,
then rewrite the requestRooter
attribute of the request object to
point to the user's home directory.
As you can see,
the actual API calls are not here,
but this is the code
that's going to do it.
The rewriteRooter is rewriting
the requestRooter attribute to
Joe's home directory in this case.
So, let me show you how it works.
So let me go to my home directory.
Here the user is WWDC.
And I have one movie
in my movies directory.
and Enya1.mov.
So I'm going to try and go to
my player and connect to the
movie in my home directory.
Oh, there it is.
So it's tilde www.dc/nu1.move.
Let's see what happens.
404 not found.
So the server doesn't
understand what a tilde is,
and so it's throwing out and saying,
I don't know what it is.
It's not here.
It's not available.
I've written a dynamic module,
and this dynamic module can be
dropped into the modules folder.
There it is in the modules folder.
And I need to restart the server
so that the server can load up
the dynamic module or the plugin.
There you go.
I restarted the server.
I'm going to try and connect it again,
now with my module installed.
So hopefully,
I've written the module correctly
and there are not too many bugs.
It'll work.
Let's see.
There you go.
So you can see how easy it
is to write really powerful
modules with not so much code,
really.
So, and this concludes my demo.
Chris?
Okay,
so you've seen some of the new features
in QuickTime Streaming Server 4.
The team's already hard on
work on the next release,
so you'll be seeing a
bunch of new features some
John showed you how to work
with the admin protocol.
Hopefully you can see the
power of the admin protocol.
The tools he wrote were simple to write.
He wrote them just as demos and it didn't
take him a whole lot of time to do it.
You guys could write even more powerful
tools than that to do monitoring.
and Mike Leigh,
and Mike Leigh showed you that
it actually really is easy to
write modules for the server.
You need to understand the APIs,
but you can do some pretty powerful
things with just a few lines of code.
I encourage all of you to try
to take a look at some of the
documentation for these things.
So let's talk about what is left for the
rest of the week related to streaming.
So not much left because it's Thursday,
but if you want to learn more
about MPEG-4 and QuickTime,
there's a session on
Friday at 3.30 in room A2.
And I believe some of our
MPEG-4 engineers will be there,
so that should be a pretty good session.
And then on Friday at 10.30 a.m.,
there's a feedback forum for QuickTime,
and that's the place to give
any kind of feedback you'd
like for anything QuickTime.
QuickTime Streaming Server,
QuickTime Client, QuickTime APIs,
anything like that.
It's usually a pretty
interesting feedback session.
So if you're a developer and
you need to work with Apple,
Jeff Lowe is your man.
He's the QuickTime technology manager
in the evangelism group at Apple.
So he handles developer things
for all things QuickTime,
and his email address is there,
jefflowe at apple.com.
and Jeff is here in the room,
so maybe if you want to talk to him now,
he's... after the session,
he's sitting right over there.
In terms of where you can get
more information on some of the
things you heard about today,
so as I mentioned,
the streaming server is open source,
so if you want to just take a look
at the source code or actually
become one of our developers,
go to Apple's open source website
and you'll see links there for
the Darwin Streaming Server.
And we encourage you to help us out.
We love help.
If you want to learn more about
QuickTime developer topics,
the developer.apple.com slash
QuickTime site has everything
about QuickTime in terms of APIs,
the QuickTime Streaming Server APIs,
and anything QuickTime, basically.
And then another good place
for contacting or for kind
of getting information are
some of our mailing lists.
So the streaming server
group has two mailing lists.
We've got a developer's mailing list.
That's for people like you,
people who are actually
working on the server,
trying to get information on the server,
trying to write modules,
working on the open source,
working with the admin protocol.
And we've got a user's list,
which is more for people who are
deploying the server and trying to
get it up and running or wondering
how they can do certain things.
Both of these lists
are fairly low traffic.
I shouldn't say traffic.
There's a low amount of noise.
It's actually,
they're pretty high quality lists.
And so I'd encourage you to go
ahead and subscribe to those lists.
And the other thing about those
lists is that the engineers
are really active on that list.
That's the way that you talk directly
to a QuickTime Streaming Server engineer
is to get up on that list and ask.
In addition,
there's a mailing list for kind
of general QuickTime discussion.
It's typically kind
of a technical nature.
A lot of content developers
are on that list,
and that list is the
QuickTime Talk mailing list.
And to get on any of these mailing lists,
just go to the list.apple.com website,
and you can subscribe
on that web page there.
In terms of technical documentation,
I mentioned that you can get the
streaming server API documentation
off of the developer website.
In addition to that,
if you download or check
out the source code,
there's a documentation
directory in the source code.
What that has is kind of
unofficial documentation.
These are things that are more like
developer notes and how to build,
some discussion of some of
the internal workings of the
server and things like that.
I encourage you to take
a look at that directory.
A great place to learn about
modules is also in the source code.
As Mythili mentioned,
almost every feature,
actually every feature in the
server is implemented as a module.
We also include some sample modules.
These are great places to look
through code and learn because
the sample modules are intended
to teach you how to write modules.
They're not quite as
daunting as something like
our live reflection module,
which is huge and pretty complicated.
These are all well documented
and well commented.